Release candidate 07 (#219)
eclipse-score/reference_integration: docs/release_notes/score_07.rst

..
   # *******************************************************************************
   # Copyright (c) 2026 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
   #
   # See the NOTICE file(s) distributed with this work for additional
   # information regarding copyright ownership.
   #
   # This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the
   # terms of the Apache License Version 2.0 which is available at
   # https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
   #
   # SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
   # *******************************************************************************

S-CORE v0.7-release notes
=========================

.. document:: S-CORE v0.7 release note
   :id: doc__score_v07_release_note
   :status: draft
   :safety: QM
   :security: YES
   :realizes: wp__platform_sw_release_note

| **Platform Release:** S-CORE
| **Release Tag:** v0.7.0
| **Origin Release Tag**: v0.6

> | **Release Date:** 2026-05-04

Reviewer: should be updated

Reviewer 2: done

It allows fine-grained control over scheduling, thread management, and workload isolation through configurable execution engines.

- **Version:** ``kyron v0.1.2``
- **Release notes**: `Kyron release notes <https://github.com/eclipse-score/kyron/releases/tag/v0.1.2>`_

Lifecycle & Health Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Lifecycle module provides a Launch Manager for process lifecycle management as well as a Health Monitoring library to support supervision of process behavior.

- **Version:** ``lifecycle v0.2.0``
- **Release notes**: `Lifecycle release notes <https://github.com/eclipse-score/lifecycle/releases/tag/v0.2.0>`_

Reference integration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Central integration of Eclipse S-CORE modules

- **Version:** ``reference integration v0.7.0``
- **Source / tag:** `Reference Integration GitHub release <https://github.com/eclipse-score/reference_integration/releases/tag/v0.7.0>`_

Reference QNX image
+++++++++++++++++++++
- No changes compared to the previous software version.

Reference Red Hat AutoSD Linux image (Experimental)
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

> - ...

Reviewer: @opajonk can you provide something here?

Reference Elektrobit corbos Linux for Safety Applications Linux image (Experimental)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

> - ...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- No changes compared to the previous software version.
```

Associated Infrastructure Modules
-----------------------------------

process_description
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Provides a process model establishing organizational rules for developing open source software
in the automotive domain, suitable for safety and security contexts.

- **Version:** ``process description v1.5.4``

> - **Release notes**: `process_description release <https://github.com/eclipse-score/process_description/releases/tag/v1.5.4>`_

Reviewer: I think the list in the link is only the diff to the previous version. Can @masc2023 can you provide a small note here?

Reviewer 4: @FScholPer yes, please add this link, official release notes, v1.5.4 was only bug fix
https://eclipse-score.github.io/process_description/main/release_notes/release_note_v_1_5_3.html

Reviewer 2: > @FScholPer yes, please add this link, official release notes, v1.5.4 was only bug fix https://eclipse-score.github.io/process_description/main/release_notes/release_note_v_1_5_3.html

Linked but keep in mind its 1.5.3 in title of release notes linked to the release 1.5.4 but need object is named 1.5.2 ...
End user might be confused as it looks bugged a lot.

Reviewer 2: clarified in a call to use https://github.com/eclipse-score/process_description/releases/tag/v1.5.4 and it links to docs pages

docs-as-code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Tooling for linking and generation of documentation.

> - **Version:** ``docs-as-code v4.0.3``

Reviewer 5: Not sure what am I supposed to approve here. That this is the correct version intended for the release?

Reviewer 2: yes and if you want to add anything to the release notes besides the official linked one

> - **Source / tag:** `docs-as-code GitHub release <https://github.com/eclipse-score/docs-as-code/releases/tag/v4.0.3>`_

Reviewer: Same here if this is only a link list we do not need to write it

Reviewer 2: Should I point to the release notes for v4.0.0 or someone should update release notes?

tooling
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Tooling for S-CORE development.

- **Version:** ``tooling v1.1.2``
- **Source / tag:** `tooling GitHub release <https://github.com/eclipse-score/tooling/releases/tag/v1.1.2>`_

ITF (Integration Testing Framework)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ITF is a pytest-based testing framework designed for ECU (Electronic Control Unit) testing in automotive domains. 
It provides a flexible, plugin-based architecture that enables testing on multiple target environments including Docker containers,
QEMU virtual machines, and real hardware.

- **Version:** ``itf v0.3.0``
- **Source / tag:** `ITF GitHub release <https://github.com/eclipse-score/itf/releases/tag/v0.3.0>`_

Test Scenarios
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Test scenarios provide a backend for defining C++ and Rust implemented test scenarios that allow parametrized execution of built scenario applications which are the input for test cases.

- **Version:** ``Test Scenarios v0.4.1``
- **Source / tag:** `Test Scenarios GitHub release <https://github.com/eclipse-score/testing_tools/releases/tag/v0.4.1>`_

> Bazel CPP Toolchain

Reviewer 6: @FScholPer I believe we added AutoSD's toolchain in this module, can I add a note about here?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- **Version:** ``bazel_cpp_toolchains v0.5.1``
- **Release notes**: `Bazel CPP Toolchain release notes <https://github.com/eclipse-score/bazel_cpp_toolchains/releases/tag/v0.5.1>`_

Known Issues
----------------------
- see release notes of every module separately

Upgrade Instructions
----------------------
- Increase to newest bazel registry versions: https://eclipse-score.github.io/bazel_registry_ui

> - Versions can be found under: https://github.com/eclipse-score/reference_integration/blob/main/known_good.json

Reviewer 7: Small thingy here:

```suggestion
- Versions can be found under: https://github.com/eclipse-score/reference_integration/blob/v0.7.0/known_good.json
```

Reviewer 2: any new commit clears current approvals, so you need to do it again :)
